Skip to main content
Admissions
Requirements

How to apply

Tuition & financial aid

Campuses & majors

Twitter
Facebook
Search
Pause video playback
Home 
Tuition & financial aid
Tuition & financial aid
2026-2027 academic year UC tuition for CA students. You can expect your tuition to stay the same for up to six years.

$15,588

For most in-state students, if your family's income is in this range and you qualify for financial aid, you won't pay any tuition.

$0–100,000

Average amount of grants and scholarships awarded to eligible CA students last year:

$22,000

54%
54% of CA undergrads pay
no tuition

67%
67% of CA undergrads receive grants & scholarships

63%
63% of CA students graduate with no student loan debt

A UC degree is worth it. And we can help you pay for it.
Our financial aid program is one of the best out there. It supports students in all kinds of ways, whatever their background—with grants, scholarships, low-interest loans, and more. And it’s worth it.

Studying at UC is an incredible experience on its own—and our high graduation rates put you on a fast track towards a truly rewarding career.


Dates & deadlines
 

March 2
Financial aid deadline to submit FAFSA or CA Dream Act application. 

May 1
Deadline for first-year students to submit their SIR.

June 1
Deadline for transfer students to submit their SIR.

 

You belong here. So we'll help you get here.
Paying for your education is a partnership between you, your parents and UC.

How aid works
Financial aid for you, and you, and you too.
You should apply for financial aid, even if you don’t think you qualify. Because there are lots of options out there — and we want to make sure our students get every penny they deserve.

Get financial aid
Financial aid lets you focus on what matters: your education.
Our financial aid program takes the pressure off paying for your studies, so you can concentrate on what’s important: your education. There’s plenty of help available for students from all walks of life.

Find out about types of aid
Want to know how much help you can get?

Campus financial aid calculators
Blue and Gold
Blue and Gold is our commitment to affordability and predictability for California students. If your family earns up to $100,000, you could receive enough aid to cover your UC tuition. Our aid programs allow for our students to borrow less and many even graduate debt free. Plus, you can expect your UC tuition to remain the same for up to six years providing you and your family with cost stability throughout your time at UC.

Find out more and apply
UC tuition: What to expect
UC is committed to helping you plan for the cost of your education. In fact, 54% percent of California students receive enough financial aid to cover the cost of tuition. If you do pay tuition, UC's Tuition Stability Plan means your tuition should stay the same for up to six years.*

How much does UC cost?
Learn more about our Tuition Stability Plan
 

*UC tuition includes systemwide tuition, student services fees and non-residential supplemental tuition (when applicable). Campus fees are subject to change.

More than half of UC's California undergrads pay no tuition and 67% receive grants and scholarships (money that you don't need to repay). 
Admissions
universityofcalifornia.edu
Counselors Contact us
Accessibility Privacy Statement Terms of use
Copyright © Regents of the University of California