Intended for high school students, future transfer students, and parents.

I’m a California native who transferred to UCLA during my sophomore year from the University of Utah. With the school year and application season around the corner, I hope sharing my lived experiences gives guidance to prospective Bruins! (Or helps you realize UCLA isn’t for you)

UCLA has been ranked the number one best public university for five straight years by U.S. News & World Report. Nestled in Westwood, UCLA is in a college town about 35 minutes away from Downtown Los Angeles. It almost has a suburban vibe, but oblivious LA drivers still crowd every neighboring street. On-campus parking is ridiculously limited and expensive, so most of us relied on Uber and Lyft to get out of Westwood.

Press enter or click to view image in full size

Royce Hall at UCLA
If the cost of living scares you, remember there are always scholarships out there.

Plus, there are so many ways you can make money on the side! On-campus jobs, Care.com, Task Rabbit, Tutoring, Uber, or really anything. A degree and the people you meet along the way are priceless so don’t get discouraged.

Student Culture
If you’re interested in going Greek, there’s a community for it. But, I love how the UCLA culture doesn’t pressure anyone to join Greek life. I admire some of our Greek organizations because they seem accepting towards the LGBTQ+ community unlike other chapters at different unis.

A unique part of UCLA is our student-run club culture. There are clubs for nearly every ethnic/ cultural identity and any hobby or profession you can think of.

Some clubs that first come to mind are the ones for Taiwanese Americans, Filipino transfer students, fashion enthusiasts, future lawyers or management consultants, marijuana connoisseurs, and avid sewers. The most known clubs might be the ones for urban dance and Kpop dance.


Campus culture is conventionally progressive as you can probably tell from this list of clubs. Admittedly, there’s an underlying sense of competitiveness within some campus organizations. So, leave any petty high school mentality behind and know you can learn something from every single one of your peers. Uni admissions don’t equate to an explicit job offer, so work hard and enjoy everyone in your community.

Finding Mentorship
The global alumni support and mentorship you receive if you just ask for it has been something I’m most thankful for. There are lots of first-generation college-goers on campus, and I can empathize with what it’s like to navigate higher education on your own.

No matter what uni you commit to, remember to never be shy in asking for guidance from your alumni community.

Cons
There are over 30,000 undergraduate students at UCLA. To get thoughtful feedback or advice from any professor, you need to either be an extrovert or choose a major with small class sizes. I leaned on the latter and wound up graduating from a small but supportive department that connected me with an amazing paid internship throughout my whole senior year.

Pros
There are a lot of unconventionally titled majors at UCLA that might confuse your parents, but just choose whatever genuinely interests you! The job market is changing at a faster pace than when your parents were in school, and I appreciate how the UCLA faculty prepares its students for that.

—

No matter where you commit to, don’t just sit in the classroom being spoon-fed information. Always hold a healthy amount of skepticism towards your own beliefs while questioning the curriculum being taught to you. One day you might be the one crafting those lessons!

The purpose of any uni is to provide you with a supportive community that’ll help you come into the best version of yourself. That includes the community in and around the campus. There’s too much to be learned away from the university, so before committing to UCLA ask yourself if the Californian community can help you achieve your goals.

